docs(AutoML): Updated AutoML tutorials with UI path (#77)
red-hat-data-services/red-hat-ai-examples: examples/automl/churn_prediction_tutorial.md

Reviewer: The screenshot is outdated - it uses old autogluon version

Author: updated screen

**Scenario:** You have (or download) the **Telco Customer Churn** dataset: one row per customer, with features like contract type, tenure, charges, and a **Churn** column (Yes/No). The goal is to train a model that predicts **Churn**, so you can identify at-risk customers and use the best model from the leaderboard for retention or deployment.

This tutorial walks you through that end-to-end in two ways:

1. **Primary path — AutoML in the UI:** create a project, S3 connections for **results** and **training data**, a workbench with the **results** connection attached (so you can reach run artifacts without a restart), then run an **AutoML optimization** from **Develop & train** → **AutoML** (labeled **Tech Preview** in the UI). You can **optionally** copy the churn CSV into the training bucket first ([see below](#upload-the-training-dataset-to-s3)); otherwise, on the AutoML data step use **Upload file** to pass the same training file from your machine. After the run succeeds, view the leaderboard, use the predictor notebook, optionally register the model, deploy it with the AutoGluon serving runtime, and score the deployment.

> 2. **Optional path — pipeline definition:** configure the Pipeline Server, import the compiled [pipeline.yaml](pipelines/pipeline.yaml) as a **Pipeline Definition**, and create a **pipeline run** with the same kind of parameters (S3 training data, label column, task type). Use this when you need the explicit pipeline graph, reproducible YAML, or your organization standardizes on Kubeflow pipelines.

Reviewer: Let's use descriptions as for Auto RAG tutorial (https://github.com/red-hat-data-services/red-hat-ai-examples/blob/063dc1c69b2628a6173b320bc49a64edcd864f6f/examples/autorag/red_hat_summit_tutorial.md): 

```suggestion
1. *Option 1: AutoML UI (recommended)** create a project, S3 connections for **results** and **training data**, a workbench with the **results** connection attached (so you can reach run artifacts without a restart), then run an **AutoML optimization** from **Develop & train** → **AutoML** (labeled **Tech Preview** in the UI). You can **optionally** copy the churn CSV into the training bucket first ([see below](#upload-the-training-dataset-to-s3)); otherwise, on the AutoML data step use **Upload file** to pass the same training file from your machine. After the run succeeds, view the leaderboard, use the predictor notebook, optionally register the model, deploy it with the AutoGluon serving runtime, and score the deployment.

2. **Option 2: KFP Native Pipeline Approach (advanced)** configure the Pipeline Server, import the compiled [pipeline.yaml](pipelines/pipeline.yaml) as a **Pipeline Definition**, and create a **pipeline run** with the same kind of parameters (S3 training data, label column, task type). Use this when you need the explicit pipeline graph, reproducible YAML, or your organization standardizes on Kubeflow pipelines.
```

Author: changed

The body of this document follows the **primary (AutoML UI)** order. The [optional pipeline flow](#optional-run-automl-via-pipeline-definition) is a single section at the end.

## Table of contents

- [🏗️ Create a new project](#create-a-new-project)
- [💾 Create the S3 connections](#create-the-s3-connections)
- [🔗 Create workbench with connections attached](#create-workbench-with-connections-attached)
- [⬆️ (Optional) Upload the training dataset to S3](#upload-the-training-dataset-to-s3)
- [🤖 Run AutoML with the AutoML UI](#run-automl-with-the-automl-ui)
- [📊 View the leaderboard](#view-the-leaderboard)
- [📓 Predictor Notebook](#predictor-notebook)
- [📚 Model Registry](#model-registry)
- [⚙️ Prepare the ServingRuntime for AutoGluon with KServe](#prepare-the-servingruntime-for-autogluon-with-kserve)
- [🚀 Model Deployment](#model-deployment)
- [🎯 Deployment Scoring](#deployment-scoring)

> - [Optional: Run AutoML via pipeline definition](#optional-run-automl-via-pipeline-definition)

Reviewer: Would be better to align the optional formatting to L19:  
```
(Optional) Run AutoML via pipeline definition
```
or use 
```
(Advanced) Run AutoML via pipeline definition
```

Author: done

## 💾 Create the S3 connections

> Create two S3-compatible connections in your project: one for **results** (artifacts, leaderboard, and workbench access to those artifacts) and one for **training data** (the churn CSV). You attach the **results** connection to the workbench in [Create workbench with connections attached](#create-workbench-with-connections-attached). The **training data** connection is what you select in the AutoML UI (or what you pass as `train_data_secret_name` in an [optional pipeline run](#run-automl-with-the-required-inputs)). If you use the [optional pipeline flow](#optional-run-automl-via-pipeline-definition), you also configure the Pipeline Server to use the **results** bucket for pipeline artifacts.

Reviewer: The Pipeline Server must be configured for UI approach as well.

Author: moved Pipeline Server configuration to be included in UI path as well

| **④** | Fill in the connection details: **Endpoint** (S3-compatible bucket endpoint), **Bucket** (for pipeline results and Pipeline Server artifacts), **Region**, **Access key**, **Secret key**. |
| **⑤** | Click **Create**. |

> If you run the [optional pipeline flow](#optional-run-automl-via-pipeline-definition), use this **results** connection when configuring the Pipeline Server so pipeline runs and artifacts land in this bucket. For exact UI steps and endpoint formatting, see [Using connections](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/3.4/html/working_on_projects/using-connections_projects) and [Creating an S3 client](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/3.4/html/working_with_data_in_an_s3-compatible_object_store/creating-an-s3-client_s3) in the Red Hat OpenShift AI documentation.

Reviewer: In UI approach the artifacts are also located in the "results" connection associated with Pipeline Server

Author: changed instruction to inform that results are stored in s3 for ui and pipeline paths

Reviewer: Added comment for the whole section. Resolving the conversation here

| **④** | Fill in the connection details: **Endpoint** (S3-compatible bucket endpoint), **Bucket** (for pipeline results and Pipeline Server artifacts), **Region**, **Access key**, **Secret key**. |
| **⑤** | Click **Create**. |

> Use this **results** connection when configuring the **Pipeline Server** (see [Configure the Pipeline Server](#configure-the-pipeline-server)). AutoML UI runs and pipeline runs store artifacts (leaderboard, trained models, notebooks) in the bucket configured there. For exact UI steps and endpoint formatting, see [Using connections](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/3.4/html/working_on_projects/using-connections_projects) and [Creating an S3 client](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/3.4/html/working_with_data_in_an_s3-compatible_object_store/creating-an-s3-client_s3) in the Red Hat OpenShift AI documentation.

Reviewer: Same comment as for TS: 

COuld you please simplify the section. At first part it's written that the results connection is needed for Optional pipeline flow. But in 2nd part it's written that the results connmection is where the artifacts are written when using AutoML UI.

Let's simplify - the approach how to run the pipeline doesn't matter - results connection is where the artifacts are stored after any AutoML run

Author: okay

Parameters on this screen (left **Documents**, right **Configure details**):

| UI control | What it does |
|------------|----------------|
| **S3 connection** | Select the **training data** connection you created in [Create the S3 connections](#create-the-s3-connections). Use **Add new connection** if you need another bucket profile. |
| **Select file from bucket** / **Upload file** | Either pick an object already in the bucket ([optional upload](#upload-the-training-dataset-to-s3)) or **Upload file** and choose the CSV from your machine (for example [WA_FnUseC_TelcoCustomerChurn.csv](data/churn/input_data/WA_FnUseC_TelcoCustomerChurn.csv)). |
| **Prediction type** (task cards) | Chooses the learning problem. **Binary classification** — two classes (e.g. Yes/No). **Multiclass classification** — more than two discrete classes. **Regression** — a numeric target. **Time series forecasting** — sequential data with a time axis. For **Telco Customer Churn**, use **Binary classification** because **Churn** has two values. |
| **Label column** | Required — the column to predict (the **target**). For this tutorial, select **Churn**. |

> | **Top models to consider** | How many of the strongest candidate models AutoML advances for full refit and the leaderboard (use **−** / **+** to change the number). A smaller value finishes sooner but explores fewer models; a larger value explores more at higher cost. |

Reviewer: WOuld be good to mention the parameter rage here (1-10)

Author: added range

> After these fields are valid, click **Create run** (step **⑥** in the table) and wait until the run reaches **SUCCEEDED**.

Reviewer: It's feels raw. Here is my suggestion to improve the writing here: 

```
After validating these fields, click Create run (step ⑥) and wait for the flow graph steps to finish.
```

Author: changed

> **Note:** If your cluster version places **label** selection on a different wizard step, follow the on-screen order; the important settings for this tutorial are **Binary classification** and **Churn** as the label.

Reviewer: Why? Did it happen to you? 
AutoML UI is simple and the label section is always on the same step.

Author: not applicable, assistant added bit too much and did not caught that

<a id="view-the-leaderboard"></a>

## 📊 View the leaderboard

> When you follow [Run AutoML with the AutoML UI](#run-automl-with-the-automl-ui), the **leaderboard** (ranked models and metrics) **appears automatically** once your **optimization run** completes successfully—the UI updates when the run reaches **SUCCEEDED**. Stay in **Develop & train** → **AutoML**, open your completed run, and review the leaderboard there; you do not need **Pipelines** → **Runs** on this path.

Reviewer: Missing view of the completed run

Author: added screen, both for tabular and ts

<a id="predictor-notebook"></a>

## 📓 Predictor Notebook

The tabular AutoML training pipeline generates a **predictor notebook** (e.g. `automl_predictor_notebook.ipynb`) that loads and uses the selected AutoGluon predictor for predictions, evaluation, and exploration. How you **first obtain** that file depends on whether you use the AutoML UI or only artifacts/pipelines; from **step ③** onward the workflow is the same (upload into the workbench, run, customize).

> On disk, each refitted model stores its notebook under `models_artifact.path/model_name_FULL/notebooks`, where `models_artifact.path` looks like `autogluon-tabular-training-pipeline/<run_id>/autogluon-models-training/<task_id>/models_artifact/` (see the [autogluon_models_training component](https://github.com/red-hat-data-services/pipelines-components/tree/rhoai-3.4/components/training/automl/autogluon_models_training) for layout).

Reviewer: The `On disk` is not correct here.
On the results s3 location/ on the s3 bucket associated with pipeline server - would be correct here

Author: changed

### Get the notebook — AutoML UI

When you trained from the [AutoML UI](#run-automl-with-the-automl-ui), open the completed run and its [leaderboard](#view-the-leaderboard). In the leaderboard table, locate the **model** you want. On that row, open the **⋮** menu (**three vertical dots**, right side of the row) and click **Save notebook** to download the predictor notebook to your machine.

### Get the notebook — artifacts / pipeline only

If you are not using the leaderboard menu above (for example you only follow the [pipeline run](#view-the-leaderboard-from-the-pipeline-run) path or copy files from storage), use the **Notebook** column on the leaderboard when present, or download from your artifact store (S3): paths follow `...<run_id>/autogluon-models-training/<task_id>/models_artifact/<model_name_FULL>/notebooks/automl_predictor_notebook.ipynb`. You can pull the file with the workbench’s S3 access from **Create workbench with connections attached** if that bucket is connected.

> [!tip]

> > `run_id` can be found in **Develop & train** → **Pipelines** → **Runs** → your run → **Details** (or the equivalent on the AutoML run if your product surfaces it there).

Reviewer: Unfortunately the AutoML UI doesn't keep the run_id in Run details tab. 
No changes needed in the line

Author: updated related to comment

### Open and use the notebook in your workbench

| Step | Action |
|------|--------|
| **③** | Open your **workbench** (the notebook environment you created in **Create workbench with connections attached**). In JupyterLab, click the **Upload** button (upload icon) in the File Browser sidebar, select the downloaded `.ipynb` file, and upload it. The notebook appears in your workbench file tree. |
| **④** | Open the notebook and **run** it cell by cell. Ensure the workbench has access to the same S3 bucket (or the path configured in the notebook) so it can load the AutoGluon predictor and any data the notebook expects. If you attached the **results** connection when creating the workbench (see **Create workbench with connections attached**), that bucket is already available. |
| **⑤** | **Customize** if required: edit the model path or artifact location to point to a specific refitted model (e.g. `LightGBM_BAG_L1_FULL`), add cells for extra visualizations or metrics, change sample data, or adapt the notebook for your own workflows. Save the notebook in the workbench when done. |

> 

Reviewer: Numbers are incorrect

Author: fixed

Reviewer: The numbers are still incorrect. Now there is 7, 8, 9

Author: fixed

| **④** | On the configuration screen, under **Configure details**, set **Prediction type** to **Binary classification** — churn is two classes (e.g. Yes/No). |
| **⑤** | Select the **label** column (also called **target** or **column to predict** in the UI): **Churn**. Complete any other required fields the wizard shows for your version (for example feature columns or validation options). |
| **⑥** | Click **Create run** (enabled once required fields, including the label column, are set). Wait until the run status shows **SUCCEEDED** on the AutoML list page. |

**Step ③ — Upload the compiled pipeline as a new Pipeline Definition**
**Step ① — AutoML navigation and Create AutoML optimization run**

![Pipeline configuration](images/pipeline_configuration_1.png)
![AutoML — Develop & train → AutoML: project selector, optimization runs table, and Create AutoML optimization run](images/automl_ui_create_optimization_run.png)

> <a id="run-automl-with-the-required-inputs"></a>

Reviewer: Don't remove those aliases, they are needed for links to work.

Author: fixed

For full details and prerequisites (e.g. MySQL 5.x or 8.x), see [Creating a model registry](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_cloud_service/1/html/managing_model_registries/creating-a-model-registry_managing-model-registries) in the Red Hat OpenShift AI documentation.

**Registering a refitted AutoGluon model from your AutoML or pipeline run**

The refit stage writes each top-N model to the pipeline workspace/artifact store (same layout whether you started the job from the AutoML UI or from an [optional pipeline run](#run-automl-with-the-required-inputs)). When registering, the **path** must target the **root folder of one refitted predictor** (the AutoGluon artifact for that `_FULL` model—often the folder named `predictor` under `.../models_artifact/<ModelName>_FULL/`). For many clusters that path lives in the **results** bucket from [Create the S3 connections](#create-the-s3-connections).

### Register model — AutoML UI (after an optimization run)

> When your **optimization run** has finished and the [leaderboard](#view-the-leaderboard) is shown, pick the model row you want to register. Click the **⋮** menu (three vertical dots) on that row—the same control used for **Save notebook** in the [Predictor Notebook](#predictor-notebook) section—and choose **Register model**.

Reviewer: No need to mention Save notebook here

Author: updated

  ```

Reference for more info about v1 protocol: [KServe V1 Protocol](https://kserve.github.io/website/docs/concepts/architecture/data-plane/v1-protocol)

<a id="optional-run-automl-via-pipeline-definition"></a>

## Optional: Run AutoML via pipeline definition

Use this path when you want a **Pipeline Definition** in the project, manual **Create run** with explicit parameters, or the same [pipeline.yaml](pipelines/pipeline.yaml) the product’s AutoML feature may run under the hood. Complete the shared setup ([project](#create-a-new-project), [S3 connections](#create-the-s3-connections), [workbench](#create-workbench-with-connections-attached)). Ensure the training CSV exists in the **training data** bucket at the key you pass as `train_data_file_key`—for example by performing the [(optional) upload to S3](#upload-the-training-dataset-to-s3) or another upload method. Then perform the subsections below in order (through viewing the leaderboard from the pipeline run).

<a id="configure-the-pipeline-server"></a>

> ### ⚙️ Configure the Pipeline Server

Reviewer: As mentioned earlier Pipeline Server needs to be configured for AutoML UI approach as well

Author: already fixed
